hi look at the Peters green I'm gonna
take a few minutes to go over how to
start up your engine your boat while
you're in the driveway whether you want
to do this before you up the lake or
it's got nothing better to do it you
want to start it up the driveway for a
little bit it's couple of quick pointers
most of you're probably familiar with
this but it's always a good idea to go
over this number one of the first things
you want to do when you start before you
start your engine up if you want to get
the drive down into what's called the
trim range now you have two ranges one
called the trim one called the tilt trim
range only goes up so far until range
that's like for your trailer position
that's what it goes up all the way I've
already taken this down into the trim
Rach keep in mind don't go down to or
have somebody check it on you so you
don't go down too far put this into the
ground the reason you want to do this is
the gears the prop shaft gears the
driveshaft gears that come through here
eventually down to the prop shaft coming
universal joint you don't want that
joint to bend too far so you want to get
this down into the safe operating range
what I'm gonna do while Bobby keeps an
eye on this I'm gonna go back up to the
control lever and I'm gonna take it up
to the top of the trim range and again
that's when it stops by itself for most
both that you have to go press a
different button or you have to press
the same button even harder
okay that's not fly itself that's the
top range of the trim position so I can
start the boat anywhere up to that point
of course further down is okay as well
what you might have to do for some boat
trailer configurations you might have to
go up to the front of the trailer and
blind the cranky on your jack jack stand
down a little bit which in turn will
actually raise the stern so you get this
down a little further so make sure you
get this down into the safe operating
range once you start the engine you know
we'll go over the starting actually do
the starting all the way at the end of
the video here so I can talk a little
more once you started one thing you want
to check is that you have water coming
out of course I'm gonna have to hook up
water to here which will do that in a
second but right here you can see that
on the camera there there's a hole
there's a hole on the other side as well
this is the v6 v6 and v8 are very
similar in that your water exhaust is
gonna come out of those two holes it's
just gonna drop right down if you have a
four-cylinder it's only going to come
out one side so don't get confused if
you have a four and go start it really
got water coming out one side that's
okay that's normal it's only gonna come
out on that one side
next thing of course that you're going
to need is flush kit and this is just
that some people just call them muffs
and it kind of looks like like ear muffs
and just hook it up to a garden hose
slide it on till it covers up your
intake
try to get it about Center and once we
start it up once you put water pressure
on this occasionally the water pressure
might knock that off so check that
you're gonna check this to make sure
that stays on after you start the engine
and they just look for that water coming
out just as a double check one other
thing while you're when you're had the
engine started it's okay to go ahead and
wrap it up something you don't want to
go crazy with it two or three thousand
rpm or so
tops especially if you have it in gear
and it is okay to go in gear but when
you have a propeller on there or even
without a propeller in this case it's
even worse that's gonna spin up too fast
so keep the RPMs a little bit lower but
it is okay to to rev it up to rev it up
some again checking make sure that's all
sustained faint on them just a side note
when you do your shifting when you're
shifting into forward or reverse shift
quickly if gears when you shift into
four to reverse these gears lock they
come they start out here and they coming
together it's gonna make a loud clunk
sound especially when we're out of water
that's okay that's a good thing what you
don't want is a slow shift a slow
getting into and out of gear because
what that will do is it allows those
gears to grind and you don't want that
so you want to clunk you don't want to
grind grind grind grind clunk that would
be bad I'm gonna turn the water on we're
just about ready to start it up here in
main thing to check down into the safe
range we've got water pressure we're
gonna put water on there so we'll have
water coming in then you can go ahead
and start
so before I go up there just look at
making sure those lots are staying there
that's about all there really is to
start your engine up making sure the
water stays on puff stay on get down
into that safe range go ahead and start
it up and you got any questions so we
stopped by or give us a call thanks